Figure 6: The cytoplasmic domain of PacL proteins is not essential for PacL clustering.(A) Schematic representation of PacL1 and PacL2 proteins with deletions in the indicated segments of their cytoplasmic domains. Glutamic acid residues involved in PacL/Ctp interactions are indicated. (B) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. (C, D) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of cells of the indicated strains. Data were shown as mean ± SEM from individual cells, represented by yellow or blue dots. (E) Bipartite split-GFP assay in M. smegmatis expressing a PacL1-GFP11 fusion protein together with GFP1-10 (control) or the indicated proteins fused to GFP11 (first protein) or GFP1-10 (second protein). Fluorescence was recorded by flow cytometry and expressed as the percentage of GFP-positive cells. Data were shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, represented by green dots. (F) Cadmium (CdSO4) sensitivity of M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, assessed by disk diffusion assay. Inhibition zone diameters normalized to the empty vector control are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, with individual values indicated by gray dots. (G) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter. (H, I) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of cells of the indicated strains. Data were shown as mean ± SEM from individual cells, represented by yellow or blue dots. (J) Western blot analysis of membrane extracts from M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter. Detection was performed using an anti-GFP antibody. CtpCmV: 103.7 kDa; PacL1mT: 36.9 kDa; PacL1mT Δ37-86: 31.7 kDa; PacL1mTΔ54-86: 33.4 kDa. For statistical analysis, one-way ANOVA with a Dunnett post-test were performed. Statistical analyses were conducted on ln-transformed data for (C, E, H). Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to the reference condition: (C) PacL2mT-WT, (D) CtpGmV (PacL2WT), (E) PacL2/CtpGMBD, (F) empty vector, (H) PacL1mT-WT, (D) CtpCmV (PacL1WT) (***P < 0.001; ****P < 0.0001). Exact p values and biological replicate numbers presented in this figure are reported in Table EV6. PacL2mT: PacL2-mTurquoise fusion; CtpGmV: CtpG-mVenus fusion; PacL1mT: PacL1-mTurquoise fusion; CtpCmV: CtpC-mVenus fusion; Δ55-84: PacL2 deleted for amino acids 55 to 84; Δ54-86: PacL1 deleted for amino acids 54 to 86; Δ37-86: PacL1 deleted for amino acids 37 to 86.