Figure 4: PacL proteins collaborate to assemble multi-metal efflux machineries.(A) Bipartite split-GFP assay in M. smegmatis expressing a PacL1-GFP11 fusion protein along with GFP1-10 (control) or the indicated proteins fused to GFP11 (first protein) or GFP1-10 (second protein). Fluorescence was recorded by flow cytometry and expressed as the percentage of GFP-positive cells. Data were presented as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, represented by green dots. (B) Epifluorescence microscopy images of fixed M. tuberculosis strain carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated in the absence or presence of the indicated metals (100 µM ZnSO4 and/or 10 µM CdSO4). The right panel shows colocalization of mTurquoise and mVenus fluorescent signals along the red line in the overlay image. (C, D) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of individual cells from the same genetic background and growth conditions as in (B). Results are presented as mean ± SEM from individual cells, represented by yellow or blue dots. (E) Epifluorescence microscopy images of fixed M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. The right panel shows colocalization of mTurquoise and mVenus fluorescent signals along the red line in the overlay image. (F–H) Bipartite split-GFP assay in M. smegmatis expressing a PacL1-GFP11 fusion protein along with GFP1-10 (control) or the indicated proteins fused to GFP11 (first protein) or GFP1-10 (second protein). Fluorescence was recorded by flow cytometry and expressed as the percentage of GFP-positive cells. Data were presented as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, represented by green dots. (I) Cadmium (CdSO4) sensitivity of M. smegmatis strains harboring a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis pacL-ctp genes under the control of an ATC-inducible promoter, assessed by disk diffusion assay in the presence of the inducer. Inhibition zone diameters normalized to the empty vector control (tet-empty) are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, with individual values indicated by gray dots. (J) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of the indicated promoters, cultivated without or with 50 nM anhydrotetracycline (ATC). (K, L) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of individual cells from the same genetic background and growth conditions as in (J). Results are presented as mean ± SEM from individual cells, represented by yellow or blue dots. (M) Bacterial growth of the indicated M. tuberculosis strains in the absence or presence of 10 µM CdSO4, evaluated by turbidity measurements (McFarland units). Data represent mean ± SEM from biological triplicates. For statistical analysis, (A, C, D, F–I) one-way ANOVA with a Dunnett post-test or (K, L) an unpaired t-test were performed. Statistical analyses were conducted on ln-transformed data for (A, C, D, F–H. Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to the reference condition (control (A, F, G, H), PacL1mV (C), PacL2mT (D), empty vector (I)), or between conditions linked by a black line (F, K, L) (**P < 0.01; ****P < 0.0001). Exact p values and biological replicate numbers presented in this figure are reported in Table EV6. PacL2mT: PacL2-mTurquoise fusion; CtpGmV: CtpG-mVenus fusion; tet-: ATC-inducible promoter; pL1: pacL1 promoter; CtpAMBD, CtpCMBD, CtpGMBD, and CtpVMBD: N-terminal domain of CtpA, CtpC, CtpG, and CtpV encoding the predicted P-ATPase metal-binding domain.