Figure 7: Conserved amino acids of the TM domain of PacL proteins are essential to assemble functional PacL clusters.(A) Sequence conservation logo of the predicted transmembrane domain of 120 bacterial PacL-like proteins (DUF1490-containing proteins). (B) Cadmium (CdSO4) sensitivity of M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, assessed by disk diffusion assay. Inhibition zone diameters normalized to the empty vector control are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, with individual values indicated by gray dots. (C) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with or without 100 nM CdSO4. Insets represent enlarged regions indicated by arrows. (D, E) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of cells of the indicated strains. Results are shown as means ± SEM from individual cells, represented by yellow or blue dots. (F) Super-resolution 3D imaging of individual M. smegmatis cells carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing PacL2mEos (PacL2WT, PacL2G17L+G20L, or PacL2K9A) under the control of its native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4, using PALM microscopy. Representative images are shown from dozens of analyzed cells. (G–I) Quantification of (G) the number of PacL2 clusters per cell, (H) cluster sizes, and (I) the proportion of molecules localized within a cluster per cell, determined via cluster segmentation of single-molecule localizations using the PoCA software platform. Results are presented as means ± SEM from individual cells (G, I) or individual clusters (H), represented by gray dots, pooled from n = 3 independent biological replicates. For statistical analysis, one-way ANOVA with a Dunnett post-test were performed. Statistical analyses were conducted on ln-transformed data for (E). Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to the reference condition (empty vector (B) or WT (D, E, G–I) (*P < 0.05; **P < 0.01; ****P < 0.0001). Exact p values and biological replicate numbers presented in this figure are reported in Table EV6. PacL2mT: PacL2-mTurquoise fusion; CtpGmV: CtpG-mVenus fusion; PacL2mEos: PacL2-mEos fusion.