Figure 6: Tmprss11b-high squamous tumors and acidified regions of the TME are enriched for immunosuppressive macrophages.(A) Representative ex vivo images of lungs from SNL mice, control (no Cre) or infected with Ad-Cre (11 months post infection), 24 h post injection with PDBA ICG 5.3 ultra pH-sensitive (UPS) nanoparticle. Bright-field images (left) and the corresponding ICG fluorescence images (right) are shown. (B) Quantification of mean ICG fluorescence intensity (control n = 5 mice; Ad-Cre n = 3 mice, biological replicates). Unpaired t test with Welch’s correction was used for the analysis, P = 0.0281. Plot represents mean ± SD. (C) H&E image of the lung section from Fig. 3A), with ICG signal on the same section, and RNAscope of Tmprss11b (red) on a serial section. Also shown are spatial plots depicting enrichment of Cd68 (macrophage marker) and Spp1 (immunosuppressive macrophage marker) transcripts in these regions. Scale bar, 1 mm. (D) Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of immune cell pathways from the low pH versus high pH spatial transcriptomics data with normalized enrichment scores (NES), false discovery rate (FDR) and p values for the indicated gene signatures. The nominal P and FDR values were obtained from the “GSEA Preranked” tool (from Broad Institute) using a weighted scoring scheme. Gene sets were evaluated based on the default normalized enrichment score method, and statistical significance was determined by bootstrapping with 1000 permutations. (E) Bar graph representing top M2-like/TAM genes from the differential gene expression (DEG) analysis of low pH versus high pH spatial transcriptomics data. Differential gene expression was calculated using Seurat’s FindAllMarkers function, and direct comparisons between two classes and corresponding P values were obtained using Seurat’s FindMarkers function with the Wilcoxon rank-sum test with Bonferroni P value correction. (F) Representative ICG fluorescence images (left) and the corresponding immunohistochemistry (IHC) validation of HMOX1 and MSR1 (right) in SNL lung sections. The staining was repeated with lung sections from different mice (n = 2, biological replicates). Scale bar, 500 μm.