Symptomatic rescue of double‐transgenic mice without decreased protein aggregation

A. The expression of exogenous HMGB1‐FLAG (detected with an anti‐FLAG antibody) and endogenous+exogenous HMGB1 (detected with an anti‐HMGB1 antibody) was tested by immunohistochemical analysis. Nuclear and cytoplasmic signals were reduced in Atxn1‐KI mice but restored in double‐transgenic mice. The mean ± SD are shown in the lower graph.

B. Aggregate formation was tested by immunohistochemical analysis of cerebellar tissues of background C57BL/6 mice, mutant Atxn1‐KI mice and double‐transgenic mice. Ubiquitin‐positive aggregates were observed in mutant Atxn1‐KI mice and double‐transgenic mice (upper panels); the ratio of aggregate‐positive Purkinje cells did not differ between the four mutant Atxn1‐KI mice and the four double‐transgenic mice (lower graph). The data are presented as mean ± SD.

C. Western blot analysis with anti‐ubiquitin antibody confirmed that aggregate formation was similar in mutant Atxn1‐KI mice and double‐transgenic mice.

D. The rotarod performance test revealed improvement in the motor activity of double‐transgenic mice over that of mutant Atxn1‐KI mice. The time on rotarod was the mean value of the times from day 1 to day 3. The symptomatic onset in mutant Atxn1‐KI mice was 7 weeks; improvement in double‐transgenic mice lasted from 9 to 21 weeks. The data are presented as mean ± SD. Statistical analysis was performed with the Bonferroni–Dunn test and Student's t‐test.

E. Details of the rotarod performance of the three genotypes of mice (WT, Atxn1‐KI and double‐transgenic) from day 1 to day 3 at 5, 9 and 21 weeks. The data are presented as mean ± SD.

F. The survival rates of the four genotypes of mice. The mean and maximum lifespans of double‐transgenic mice were nearly 30% longer than those of mutant Atxn1‐KI mice. The 50% survival duration was extended from 217 days (Atxn1‐KI) to 282 days (Atxn1‐KI;HMGB1), and the maximum survival duration was extended from 274 days (Atxn1‐KI) to 360 days (Atxn1‐KI;HMGB1). The effect of HMGB1 on the lifespan was assessed by Kaplan–Meier analysis, and the end‐point postponement was significant in the log‐rank test (P = 0.0025).

G. Histological evaluation of the double‐transgenic mice.

H. Quantitative analysis of histological parameters in the three groups of mice showed that reduction in the molecular layer thickness was reversed in double‐transgenic mice (upper graph; Student's t‐test, P < 0.05). The mean thickness was quantified in more than 10 visual fields per mouse, and the mean ± SD was calculated for nine mice in each group. The number of Purkinje cells, similarly calculated, was not changed in mutant Atxn1‐KI mice or in double‐transgenic mice (lower graph). The data are presented as mean ± SD. *P < 0.05 in Student's t‐test, #P < 0.05 in one‐way ANOVA followed by post hoc Tukey's HSD (honestly significant difference) test.

