(A) PCA plot. (B) Z-score at 0, 3 and 10 d in BMP4 for marker transcripts for each subcellular compartment. Nuclear transcripts: nuclear paraspeckle assembly 1 (Neat1), metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (Malat1), plasmacytoma variant translocation 1 (Pvt1). Cytoplasmic transcripts: small subunit ribosomal protein 14 (Rps14), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate hydrogenase (Gapdh), 7S RNA 1(Rn7s1). (C) Z-scores at 0, 3 and 10 d in BMP4 for the transcripts detected across all conditions (omitting eleven data points out of range); white lines: median and quartile boundaries from n = 4 biological replicates for each time point. Number of significantly nuclear biasing (magenta) or cytoplasmic biasing (green) genes from pairwise comparison of each time-point, and overall from likelihood ratio testing across the time-course. (D) Most nuclear-biased (10, magenta) and cytoplasmic-biased (10, green) biological process GO terms in qNSCs relative to aNSCs. Fisher’s exact test. (E) Nuclear- or cytoplasmic-biased transcripts largely predict directionality of protein levels change (shown correlation at 10 versus 0 d BMP4): 80% proteins downregulated corresponding to nuclear-biased transcripts and 77% proteins upregulated corresponding to cytoplasm-biased ones. (F) Protein expression levels (scaled to normalise range of expression between samples) plotted against corresponding whole-cell mRNA expression levels (assembled in silico from fracRNA-seq data and also scaled for the same purpose). Concordance between these was assessed by a Pearson’s correlation test (P values unchanged by scaling). Note that, unlike in aNSCs, in the qNSCs highly expressed mRNAs do not correlate with high protein levels, as concluded from the non-significant P values and the poor correlation coefficient, from which it can be seen that the proteome becomes uncoupled from the transcriptome. (G) Intersection of proteomic and transcriptomic data suggests that downregulation of nucleocytoplasmic transport factors is itself subject to regulation via mRNA nuclear bias even at early stages qNSC induction. Fisher’s exact test.