Figure 2: PacL2 is essential for stabilizing CtpG within clusters. (A) Cadmium (CdSO4) sensitivity of M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, assessed by disk diffusion assay. Inhibition zone diameters normalized to the empty vector control are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, with individual values indicated by gray dots. (B, C) Bacterial growth of the indicated M. tuberculosis strains in the absence or presence of 20 µM CdSO4, evaluated by turbidity measurements (McFarland units). Data represent mean ± SEM from three independent biological replicates. (D) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated without or with 100 nM CdSO4. (E) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of individual cells from the same genetic background and growth condition as in (D). Data were shown as mean ± SEM from individual cells represented by blue dots. (F) Epifluorescence microscopy images of fixed M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. The bottom-right panel shows colocalization of mTurquoise and mVenus fluorescence signals along the red line in the overlay image. (G) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. (H) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of individual cells from the same genetic background and growth condition as in (G). Data were shown as mean ± SEM from individual cells represented by circles. (I) Western blot analysis of membrane extracts from M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. Detection was performed using an anti-GFP antibody (CtpGmV: 106.5 kDa). (J) Cadmium (CdSO4) sensitivity of M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, assessed by disk diffusion assay. Inhibition zone diameters normalized to the empty vector control are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, with individual values indicated by gray dots. (K) Epifluorescence microscopy images of live M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. (L, M) Mean fluorescence intensity (gray values) quantified in ImageJ from 8-bit grayscale images of individual cells from the same genetic background and growth condition as in (K). Data were shown as mean ± SEM from individual cells represented by circles. (N) Western blot analysis of membrane extracts from M. smegmatis strains carrying a genome-integrative vector expressing the indicated M. tuberculosis genes under the control of their native promoter, cultivated with 100 nM CdSO4. Detection was performed using an anti-GFP antibody (PacL2mT: 36.5 kDa; CtpGmV: 106.5 kDa). (O) Bipartite split-GFP assay in M. smegmatis expressing a PacL1-GFP11 fusion protein together with GFP1-10 (control) or the indicated proteins fused to GFP11 (first protein) or GFP1-10 (second protein). Fluorescence was recorded by flow cytometry and expressed as the percentage of GFP-positive cells. Data are shown as mean ± SEM from biological replicates, each represented by a green dot. For statistical analysis, (A, J, L, M, O) one-way ANOVA with a Dunnett post-test or (E, H) an unpaired t-test were performed. Statistical analyses were conducted on ln-transformed data for (E, L, O). Asterisks indicate statistically significant differences compared to the reference condition (empty vector (A, J), PacL2mT-WT (L), CtpGmV (PacL2WT) (M), or PacL2/CtpGMBD (O)) or between conditions linked by a black line (E, H) (****P < 0.0001). Exact p values and biological replicate numbers presented in this figure are reported in Table EV6. ∆pacL2comp: ectopic expression of the cmtR-pacL2 operon under the control of its native promoter in the ∆pacL2 mutant background.-Cd: absence of cadmium (CdSO4) in the bacterial culture medium; +Cd: presence of cadmium (CdSO4) in the bacterial culture medium; PacL2mT: PacL2-mTurquoise fusion; CtpGmV: CtpG-mVenus fusion; CtpGMBD: N-terminal domain of CtpG encoding the predicted metal-binding domain of the P-ATPase; 2EA: E59A and E71A substitutions in PacL2; 3EA: E55A, E59A, and E71A substitutions in PacL2.