(A) A representative western blot analysis result showing the steady-state levels of proteins examined in control naïve NT (non-target) or NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, without or with DOX treatment for two or three days. Beta-ACTIN served as a loading control. (B) Phase contrast images of cell colonies in naïve NT and NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for two or three days. Scale bars, 200 μm (4×), 100 μm (10×). (C) A representative result of Annexin V/PI flow cytometry analysis (top) and statistical analysis results (bottom) from three independent experiments in naïve NT and NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for three days. Data are presented as mean ± SEM (n = 3). (D) A representative Annexin V/PI flow cytometry analysis result (top) and statistical analysis of results (bottom) from three independent experiments in naïve NT and NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX or DOX and Z-VAD (40 μM) for three days. Data are presented as mean ± SD (n = 3). (E) Heatmaps showing normalized expression levels of selected naïve pluripotency, PrE (primitive endoderm), and TE (trophectoderm) marker genes measured by RNA-seq in naïve NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for two or three days. The color represents Z-Scores. Three biological replicates were used for each condition (n = 3). (F) A representative western blot analysis result for steady-state levels of indicated proteins in naïve NT or NANOG iKO SHhES8 hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for two or three days. Alpha-TUBULIN served as a loading control. (G) RT-qPCR analysis results for relative mRNA levels of pluripotency genes (left) and lineage marker genes (right) in naïve NANOG iKO hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for two or three days. Data are presented as mean ± SEM (n = 3). (H) Representative immunofluorescence staining images of NANOG, GATA3, and GATA6 in naïve NANOG iKO hESCs, either untreated or treated with DOX for two or three days. Scale bar, 25 μm. The unpaired two-tailed student’s t-test was used for statistical analysis in (C, D, G).