(A) PMA-THP1 cells were infected with HSV-1 (MOI = 1) for the indicated periods, using NAM (5 mM) or DMSO as a control. Cells were then lysed and subjected to immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) analysis. A representative immunoblot is shown. (B–D) HEK293T cells were transfected with various combinations of plasmids as indicated. After 24 h, immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) analysis were performed. A representative immunoblot is shown. (E) PMA-THP1 cells were transfected with HSV60 (1 μg/ml) for the indicated periods. Cell lysates were then subjected to immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) assays as indicated. A representative immunoblot is shown. (F) PMA-THP1 (top) or HeLa (bottom) cells were infected with HSV-1 (MOI = 1) for the indicated periods. Cell lysates were then subjected to immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) assays as indicated. A representative immunoblot is shown. (G) Sirt4-deficient MEFs were transfected with Flag-SIRT4 for 24 h, and then infected with HSV-1 (MOI = 1), transfected with ISD (1 μg/ml) or HT DNA (1 μg/ml) for 8 h, or left unstimulated. In situ PLA assays were performed to examine the co-localization of SIRT4 and cGAS. SIRT4-cGAS complex, red; nuclei, blue. Scale bars, 10 μm. (H) HeLa cells were infected with HSV-1 (MOI = 1) for 2 h. Immunofluorescence assays were performed using anti-cGAS (green) and anti-SIRT4 (purple). Nuclei were stained with DAPI. Mitochondria were stained with MitoTracker. Scale bar, 10 μm. Arrows indicate cGAS puncta. (I) HeLa cells were infected with HSV-1 (MOI = 1) for the indicated periods. Mitochondria isolated from cells were subjected to immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) assays as indicated. A representative immunoblot is shown. (J) Schematic diagram of full-length cGAS (top). NTase, nucleotidyl transferase domain. HEK293T cells were transfected with the indicated plasmids. At 24 h after transfection, immunoprecipitation (IP) and immunoblot (IB) assays were performed as indicated (bottom). A representative immunoblot is shown. 